Ballad of Sweeney Todd and America from West Side Story comparison essay

- Ballad of Sweeney Todd is minor and imposing and unnerving and haunting and unsettling, 4/4
- more operatic, serious tone, interweaving melodies representing todd's mental unraveling
- told like a story, or summing like that, non diagetic?
- large range from ominous low to shrill high pitched vocals

- America is upbeat and major and fast and complex rhythms, 7/8 time signature
- is a dance
- major to represent hopefulness and brass as well does that
- fast and frantic and uses polyrhythms (represents characters arguing with eachother)
- more conversational, lots of characters chiming in and interacting

'America' is much more upbeat. It has a major tonality and a fast tempo, as
well as a 7/8 time signature which makes it feel lively and fun. The Ballad of
Sweeney Todd, on the other hand, has an unsettling quality, the wavering
ostinato of a repeated second interval in the strings creates a lot of tension
and has a very ominous and unnerving quality. It also makes use of a much larger
range of pitches, going all the way from dark, ominous low pitch rumbles to
incredibly high pitched and shrill vocals which are quite challenging to listen
to.
Another difference between the two songs is that America is diagetic, with the
different characters are all dancing together and arguing, making jokes and 
actually interacting with eachother, whereas The Ballad of Sweeney Todd is non-
diagetic and acts as a sort of introduction to the play, with it more being the
actors singing as opposed to the characters themselves. This gives it a more
operatic, ominous tone compared to the more lighthearted and jokey tone of
America.
Furthermore, despite the rhythm in America being quite complex with lots of
overlapping polythythms, the texture is quite simplistic, simply being melody
with accompaniment. It makes it feel more grounded and familiar, less
challenging to listen to, which contributes to the more upbeat quality.
The Ballad of Sweeney Todd, however, has parts where there are many different
voices and melodies overlapping and interweaving, which almost makes it
confusing and disorienting to listen to, mirroring Todd's mental unraveling
throughout the course of the play.
